---
layout: post
title: Post-doctoral offer 
subtitle: "Project to generate galaxy mock catalogues for up-coming cosmological surveys"
tags: [job offers]
---

**Deadline to apply: 9th January 2022**

The [Universidad Autónoma de Madrid](https://www.uam.es/uam/en/inicio) (UAM, Spain), invites applications for ONE post-doctoral candidate to work on topics within the [“Illuminating the dark sector of the Universe”](https://viogp.github.io/atcam/) ATCAM project (2019-T1/TIC-12702), led by Dr. Violeta Gonzalez-Perez.

The work will be developed within the [Department of Theoretical Physics at UAM](https://www.uam.es/FisicaTeorica/Home.htm). This department – in which the computational astrophysics and cosmology group is embedded – provides a highly vibrant research environment ranging from particle physics, both theoretical and experimental, nuclear physics, galactic & extra-galactic astrophysics and cosmology. More than 50 scientists work on a variety of topics (in addition to about 30 PhD students).

In this framework, we offer a post-doctoral position to study theoretically how galaxies trace the dark sector. Future cosmological surveys target different types of galaxies that are visible for a large time span, from about a tenth up to half of the age of the Universe (eBOSS, Euclid, DESI). Most of the galaxies targeted by current and future cosmological surveys are either forming stars at a high rate or they harbour a very active black hole. This project will explore how these different types of galaxies trace dark matter and how their evolution can harness the properties of dark energy. The results from this work will support the success of space missions, such as Euclid (to be launch in 2022), and ground telescopes, such as the DESI (which has started during 2021). Investments of millions of euros have been made in these and other surveys and missions, such eBOSS, Roman Telescope, LSST, etc.

This project will involve the analysis of very large data sets, produced in super computing facilities. The candidate is expected to develop a method for generating mock catalogues tailored to up-coming galaxy surveys, encapsulating the effects that baryons might have on the observational probes used in cosmology. The position is essentially theoretical with a strong focus on simulations and models. 

The selected candidate will work under the supervision of Dr. Violeta Gonzalez-Perez, who has done extensive research on galaxy formation and evolution in a cosmological context.

The appointment will be for a period of 18 months, starting on 1st November 2022, or as soon as possible afterwards. The starting salary is around 25000 euros per year, before taxes. The gross annual salary is subject to up to 20% tax and Social Security deductions (depending on the personal situation of the candidate). Medical insurance under the Spanish National Health Service will be provided for the candidate and, if relevant, will also cover spouse or registered partner and children.

Applicants who are not citizens of a country belonging to the European Union are invited to apply for this position, however, if selected, will only be allowed to sign the contract with the UAM after obtaining the compulsory documentation required to live and work in Spain, for which a passport is required.

Applicants should submit their application to the attention of Dr. Violeta Gonzalez-Perez (violetagp_at_protonmail.com) by the 9th January 2022. The application should be a **single** pdf document with a one page cover letter, a CV, the names of three people that could provide references when requested, publication list and a research statement (no more than 3 pages). Your cover letter should briefly describe your past and current research interests and why you are interested in joining our group. Your CV should include the experience and skills relevant to this position and a summary of the impact of your publications (number of lead works, citations, h-index, etc).

Applications received by 9th January, 2022 will be given full consideration.

For further information please contact [Dr. Violeta Gonzalez-Perez](https://viogp.github.io/2021-10-01-pdoffer/) (violetagp_at_protonmail.com).

We are committed to increasing the number of women and other underrepresented groups in our workforce and therefore we encourage applications from such qualified individuals.